Curriculum Vitae
Dr. Christopher D. M. Andrews
Assistant Professor of English
Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi

As a technorhetorician, I teach young professionals how to write, engage, advocate, and continually professionalize by using rhetoric in a writing-rich and media-slick world. I research and write about how technical and professional communicators use digital and social writing to learn, connect, create, and share. I serve the discipline and other institutions with writing and multimodal editing expertise in HTML and other technologies. I advocate for institutions, groups, and individuals to critically engage with and through technology, trying to live out Andrew Feenberg's call to question technology by focusing on human ends rather than technical ease.

Education

PhD, Technical Communication and Rhetoric. Texas Tech University, 2013.
Dissertation: Composing Technology: A Critical Rhetorical Analysis of Doxa on the Writing Program Administrators LISTSERV

MA, English and Language. Tarleton State University, 2004.
Thesis: Henry Noble Day: Rhetoric and Invention in Elements of the Art of Rhetoric

BA, English. McMurry University, 2002.

Professional Employment

Assistant Professor of English, Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi. (September 2016 - Present).
Assistant Professor of English, McMurry University. (September 2014 - May 2016).
Instructor of English, McMurry University. (September 2004 - August 2014).

TEACHING

Teaching Experience

ENGL 3301, Technical and Professional Writing
ENGL 3375, Writing in the Professions: Rhetoric and Social Media
ENGL 3379, Writing for the Web
ENGL 4320, Writing for Social Media
ENGL 4320, Editing
ENGL 5362, Digital Rhetoric

Non-Credit Instruction

Use Writing as a Professional Engineer (Instead of as a Student), TAMU-CC, Strada MSI Measuring College Value Grant. (September 2018, October 2018, September 2019).

SCHOLARLY AND CREATIVE ACTIVITIES

Publications

Journal Articles

Andrews, C. (Under review) Because you love work: Writing program philosophy on program websites. Computers and Composition: An International Journal.

Abstract: This article describes how university writing programs are represented by their institutional web pages. Presenting a content analysis of “Why major in writing” web pages that explicitly appeal to students to join a writing major, the article describes the institutional and disciplinary values articulated via the reasons and appeals for majoring in writing those pages use. Much like technical and professional writing programs, writing studies program websites focus nearly exclusively on marketability and preparation for jobs, but don’t give a clear picture of other individual, cultural, and ethical goods created by the programs. The article argues that writing programs must resist the same siren call of hyperpragmatism so often described in scholarship in professional and technical writing. Finally, this study offers strategies for orienting institutional web presences to productively balance economic and pragmatic ideological components with civic, social, and individual rationales for the major.

Andrews, C. (2018). Professionalism in vivo: Graduate students on Facebook. Open Words: Access and English Studies, 11(1), 51-71. https://www.pearsoned.com/higher-education/pedagogy-and-practice/open-words/

Abstract: This qualitative study describes educational and professional roles that social networking sites play for graduate students in writing and related fields, giving a research-based account of how graduate students deploy online social networks to professionalize and gain access to their academic and disciplinary cultures.

Andrews, C., Amidon, T., Burnside, E., Hart, A. D., Strain, M. (2015). Composing MOOCs: Conversations about Writing in Massive Open Online Courses. Kairos: A Journal of Rhetoric, Technology, and Pedagogy, 20(1). http://kairos.technorhetoric.net/20.1/interviews/amidon-et-al/index.html

Abstract:  In an effort to understand how this online delivery method of content can potentially function in a writing classroom, this webtext draws together the experiences of six different writing scholars who have participated in various aspects of creating and delivering MOOC instruction.

Andrews, C., Burleson, D., Dunks, K., Elmore, K., Lambert, C. S., Oppegaard, B., Pohland, E. E., Saad, D., Scharer, J. S., Wery, R. L., Wesley, M., Zobel, G. (2012). A New Method in User-Centered Design: Collaborative Prototype Design Process (CPDP). Journal of Technical Writing & Communication, 42(2), 123-142. http://jtw.sagepub.com

Abstract: To build upon user-centered design methods, we used a collaborative and multi-modal approach to involve users early in the design process for a website. This article presents our methods and results and addresses the benefits and limitations of the Collaborative Prototype Design Process (CPDP), including ways in which this new method can be implemented. The CPDP is an innovative approach to user-centered website design that emphasizes collaboration, iterative testing, and data-driven design. The CPDP balances the power and needs of users with those of designers and, thus, enables design teams to test more tasks and involve more users. We divided our initial team into three independent design teams to separately profile users, test usability of low-fidelity paper prototypes, and then create and test usability of resulting wireframes. After completing the user-centered design and usability testing, the three teams merged to analyze their diverse findings and create a final prototype.

Book Reviews

Andrews, C. (2016). Review of Managing Chaos: Digital Governance by Design. In Kirk St. Amant (Ed.), Communication Design Quarterly (2B ed., vol. 4, pp. 49-53). Association for Computing Machinery (ACM) Special Interest Group on Design of Communication (SIGDOC). https://sigdoc.acm.org/publication/

Recent Presentations

Andrews, C., "Writing Instructors Really Are a Pretty Selfless Lot: Liberating Students and Technology on the WPA-LISTSERV," English Faculty Speaker Series, Sigma Tau Delta - Alpha Theta Mu Chapter, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi (October 31, 2018).

Andrews, C., "Nominal Misunderstandings: Graduate Programs and Content _____.," CPTSC Annual Conference, Council for Programs in Technical and Scientific Communication, Minneapolis, MN. (October 5, 2018).

Andrews, C., "Why am I here? Technical Communication Research, Questions, and Methods," ENGL 5303 Theory & Practice: Writing Studies, Texas A&M University-Corpus Chrsiti, Corpus Christi, TX. (April 2, 2018).

Andrews, C., "Choose your own adventure: Presenting program philosophy to the public," Association of Rhetoric and Writing Studies Conference, El Paso, Texas. (October 20, 2017).

SERVICE

Department

Committee Chair, Scholarship Committee. (August 2018 – August 2019)
Develop and redesign web content for WS/ENGL. (January 2018 - Present)
Committee Member, Ad Hoc Committee for MA Recruitment. (October 2017 – August 2019)
Committee Member, MA Comprehensive Exam Committee. (August 2017 - Present)
Committee Member, Scholarship Committee. (August 2016 - May 2018)
Organizer & Facilitator, University Author's Day. (February 2017, February 2018)

College & University

Committee Member, CLA Curriculum Committee. (August 2018 – August 2019)
Committee Member, Ad Hoc Committee on Distance Education. (October 2017 - May 2018)
Committee Member, Technical Writing Workshop Planning, Communicating STEM Grant (September 2017 - Present).
Committee Member, Written Communication Scoring MSI Grant. (May 2018)

Professional

Topoi & Praxis Section Editor, Kairos, A Journal of Rhetoric, Technology, and Pedagogy. (November 2016 - Present)

Summary of duties: Soliciting, reviewing, and preparing webtexts for peer reviewed sections of the journal. Developmental work with authors for revise-and-resubmits. Developmental editing with new authors for refereed reviews section of journal. Design and editorial production and copyediting for multimodal scholarly webtexts, especially HTML5, CSS, other web formats. Knowledge of editorial processes and standards for academic research journals. First-tier review of article submissions for other sections.

Panel Moderator, Transformations: An Interdisciplinary Graduate Symposium. (April 2018)
Member of review reading group, Best of Independent Rhetoric/Composition Journals 2016, Parlor Press. (December 2016 - January 2017)
Editor, Associate Editor, Kairos, A Journal of Rhetoric, Technology, and Pedagogy. (May 2011 - November 2016)
